[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's talk about Git.
I'm sure all of you guys
have learned about GitHub.
So Git and
GitHub are actually two different things.
Git's a tool, and
GitHub is it's a platform
where they kind of use
that tool in a social way.
So they host lots of code from lots of
different people and it's mostly open and
everyone can go ahead and check it out and
have a copy of that code.
So the advantage of using Git,
is Git is a version control system.
So you can save snapshots of your files
as they were in different stages.
And if something is going wrong and
you need to go back, you
can kind of rewind and see what that file
look like at a certain point and time.
So mostly use for code but version control
is also great for even a text project.
If you write a paragraph and you put
it in your version control system and
you deleted it and two days later, you're
like, I wonder what that paragraph said.
It actually had a really good idea in it.
I want it back.
You can cruise back through history and
take a look at that snapshot.
So Git works perfectly fine
on your local machine.
But it's nice having a remote server
that you can sink up your changes with.
So, if anything happens to your machine,
your changes are still there.
GitHub is a remote server.
So, you guys all have GitHub accounts,
we're going to go ahead and fork
our first project.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
I made a test account that
I can use with you guys.
So I'm gonna sign in.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'll
give you guys a few minutes to
sign in to your GitHub accounts.
>> Speaker 2: Is anybody not in GitHub?
Anybody need more time or
should we keep going?
>> Speaker 3: Keep going.
>> Nina Zakharenko: [CROSSTALK] All right
so Brian has this project that
we're all gonna make a copy of,
make some changes to and
then push them back up to his project.
So go to github.com/btholt.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
look at Brian's repositories.
click on this one pull requests.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
we're going to go ahead and
fork this project and what fork means
is take a snapshot of everything that
Brian did, copy it over to my machine.
I can make changes.
I can use my version control.
And it doesn't really
matter what Brian is doing.
But the really powerful feature, forking,
is Brian's working on his project and
I'm working on my project.
Maybe Brian decides that what
I'm doing is really cool and
he wants to include what I've
been doing into his repository.
So he can go ahead and take my fork and
copy it over to his code.
And so now, we have fort, so we're in the
prongs, we're doing separate things but
then we join back together.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So let's go ahead and
click this fork.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
this is going to forward
you to a different URL.
So now instead of being
on github.com/btholt,
I'm now on github.com/nina-test.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
this is my own project.
So now take this https clone URL
that's right here and copy it.
You can do that using this button.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We're
going to go to our terminal, and
go to any directory where
you'll be able to find
your files again on.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
on Mac you can do the cd ~/Desktop.
That will take you to your Desktop.
For the Windows users,
you guys will wanna be using that
git bash application for this part.
So we're gonna take that
URL that we copied.
And type in get and
clone and then paste it in.
What this is gonna do is pull
down that code from that server,
make a new directory for us locally and
copy everything that's in
there.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Does
everyone have this step complete?
You guys all have your forks checked out?
Okay so now we can go into this directory.
It's called pull-requests-1.
This is a pretty boring project,
there's really nothing in here,
so I want you guys to do an exercise.
We're gonna liven it up a little bit.
So in this directory,
make a new file, call it your first
name.txt and in that file put
a fun fact about yourself.
So I'll give you guys
a few minutes to do that.
>> Speaker 3: What should we call it?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Your first name.txt.
>> Speaker 2: Let's do first name and
then first letter of last name.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: We have 110 people.
>> Nina Zakharenko: All right.
>> Speaker 2: So it's likely
first names will collide.
>> Nina Zakharenko: All right let's do
a first name and
a first last name letter.txt.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
How do you want them to create the files?
[CROSSTALK]
>> Nina Zakharenko: You
guys just need to make sure
this file is in this directory.
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Nina Zakharenko: Did you fork
the repository?
>> Speaker 3: Not [INAUDIBLE]
github.com/bholt.
>> Nina Zakharenko: BT Holt.
>> Speaker 3: BT Holt?
>> Speaker 3: Yes.
That's nice, thank you.
T.
>> Speaker 2: I dropped one.
>> Speaker 4: That readme or
are we supposed to make a new file?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Make a new file.
>> Speaker 2: Make a text file.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah just a plain
old text file.
>> Speaker 4: From the command line?
>> Nina Zakharenko: If you are on a Mac
and you wanna make a new file
from the command line or
on a Linux machine there's
a fun command called touch.
So you can say touch and a file name.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
what that does is just
creates a totally empty file.
So if I do an ls now,
I'll see a ninaz.txt file
in here.
>> Speaker 3: If I'm here in Windows,
just go, we're in the Desktop, right?
Okay.
>> Speaker 2: Folder on the desktop.
>> Speaker 3: Okay,
the folder on the desktop.
So then just drop a txt file.
Open a Notepad.
Open Notepad or TextEdit.
And the.
>> Speaker 2: Just git.
>> Nina Zakharenko: To guys that get this
touch command working?
Yeah, okay.
I think on Mac you can just say open and
then it'll open up a text edit.